Vegan Veganism is not a diet its a value system (will elaborate below) plant based is a diet (will elaborate below) that aligns with the values of veganism.

Plant based diet:

The largest studies on human nutrition and disease ever conducted have all concluded that a whole foods plant based diet is not only the healthiest diet for humans but it also prevents and even reverses the biggest diseases and causes of death in the West (14 out of the 15 top diseases in the West are caused or worsened by animal products) the required amount of animal products humans need is zero. Look into "The China Study" as a start.

Veganism:

Veganism is an emergent value system in an emergent universe; its a value system that is focused on ever decreasing the human impact on earth and it starts with removing all animal products from ones diet and lifestyle choices for the following reasons:

Over 60 billion land animals are raised, confined, mutilated, tortured, seperated and then murdered for food that is making humans sick and is now the leading cause of death in the west.

Over 500 billion sea life are killed each year with many being "by products" i.e. dolphins and sharks and turtles being caught in large fishing nets.

99% of all land animals are raised in factory farms where animals are treated worse than the worst criminals in the world. Animals are confined in cages inside factories their entire lives, they are mutilated as they go insane and try and eat each other, they are often boiled alive in scalding tanks which remove hair because the rate these animals are killed is faster than they bleed to death. Pigs in australia are gassed to death.. sound familar?

Because over 60 billion land animals are raised and killed each year the animal agriculture industry is the main cause of all environmental destruction and climate change.. even if we completely changed our power and transport systems we will still destroy the environment and ourselves at this rate.

Animal agriculture is the main cause of:

Deforestation
Water pollution
Habitat destruction 
Species extinction
Climate change

Animal agriculture is also the main consumers of antibiotics.. as animals are so sick in their cages that they are drugged.. people who eat animal products are becoming unable to use antibiotics.

The animals people are eating are making them sick and new drugs and treatments are teated on animals when the solution is to juat stop eating them.

Farm animals such as pigs are smarted than human children, smarter than dogs, and we torture them for life and murder them for 5 minutes of selfish pleasure.

"If animals ever formulated a religion, the devil would be depicted in human form"

"To animals, all humans are nazis"
